<!--
Copyright 2023 Philip Eklöf

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
-->

# i3-event-handler

Instead of configuring a bunch of [`for_window`](https://i3wm.org/docs/userguide.html#for_window) in the i3 config to set various options on windows, i3-event-handler let's you set this up in a JSON file instead. The program listens on the events generated by i3 via its IPC socket, especially the one for "new window", to accomplish this task.

i3-event-handler was specifically created to improve marking of windows, in a case such as this:
```
for_window [class="^Firefox-esr$"] mark web
```
This marks the browser window with "web" once it gets opened, but if you open an addtional browser window, that new window will take over the mark. Perhaps there's a way to configure it some how differently to avoid this. This is resolved using i3-event-handler, as it won't reuse marks that is already used by another window.

Besides the "mark feature", one can configure one or multiple commands to run per matched window.

A nice side effect is that configuring these things using this program makes the i3 config smaller, and you probably won't need to reload i3 as often, instead, just restart i3-event-handler.


## Installation

This might work for you, might not :)

1. `git clone https://github.com/phiekl/i3-event-handler.git`
2. `cd i3-event-handler`
3. `pip3 install --user .`
4. `i3-event-handler --help` (you might need to add ~/.local/bin to your PATH).
5. `mkdir -p ~/.config/i3 ~/.config/systemd/user`
6. `cp systemd/i3-event-handler.service ~/.config/systemd/user/`
7. `cp config/event_handler.json ~/.config/i3/`
8. `vim ~/.config/i3/event_handler.json`
9. `i3-event-handler` to try it out
10. `systemctl --user start i3-event-handler` to try it out via systemd
11. Finally you would probably want to add something like this to the i3 config to start the service when i3 is launched (and reloaded):
```
exec_always --no-startup-id systemctl --user restart i3-event-handler.service`
```
